LSP support for multi-project and multi-workspace (#2020)
BetterThanTomorrow/calva: docs/site/clojure-lsp.md

## The LSP server lifecycle

By default you won't need to install/setup anything as Calva handles that for you by automatically downloading the latest clojure-lsp binary. It can take a while for clojure-lsp to start, especially the first time opening a new project, as clojure-lsp (via `clj-kondo`) indexes the project files.

Calva is able to automatically start the clojure-lsp server for you and can be configured to start the server under various different conditions. These behaviours can be configured through the `calva.enableClojureLspOnStart` setting, which takes the following options:

+ "when-workspace-opened"
+ "when-file-opened"
+ "never"

#### "when-workspace-opened" [default]

> When set to `"when-workspace-opened"` Calva will start the clojure-lsp in the root of all opened vscode workspaces. All clojure files in a workspace will be services by the lsp server running in that workspace. This behaviour requires that you are opening workspaces with a valid clojure project in the root (the directory must contain a `deps.edn`, `project.clj` or `shadow-cljs.edn` file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to `"when-workspace-opened"` Calva will start the clojure-lsp in the root of all opened vscode workspaces. All Clojure files in a workspace will be serviced by the clojure-lsp server running in that workspace. This behavior requires that you are opening workspaces with a valid Clojure project in the root (the directory must contain a `deps.edn`, `project.clj` or `shadow-cljs.edn` file).
```

This is the default auto-start behaviour.

#### "when-file-opened"

> When set to `"when-file-opened"` Calva will attempt to start the clojure-lsp whenever a clojure file is opened. The LSP server will be started in the outermost valid Clojure project or will fall back to starting in the workspace root if no valid Clojure project can be found. A directory is considered a Clojure project if it contains typical Clojure project files such as a `deps.edn`, `project.clj` or `shadow-cljs.edn` file. When working in a mono-repo style project or in a multi-workspace vscode configuration you may have multiple LSP servers running for each independent Clojure project root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to `"when-file-opened"` Calva will attempt to start the clojure-lsp server whenever a Clojure file is opened. The LSP server will be started in the outermost valid Clojure project or will fall back to starting in the workspace root if no valid Clojure project can be found. A directory is considered a Clojure project if it contains typical Clojure project files such as a `deps.edn`, `project.clj`, or `shadow-cljs.edn` file. When working in a mono-repo style project or in a multi-workspace VS Code configuration you may have multiple LSP servers running for each independent Clojure project root.
```

Reviewer: > or will fall back to starting in the workspace root if no valid Clojure project can be found

Clojure-lsp will start even if no project is found in the workspace root? Doesn't it need at least a project file in the workspace root to start for the workspace root?

Author: The clojure-lsp does still work without a project-file however it is limited in what it can do, afaict.

So using that as a fallback allows things to continue to work, just slightly degraded.

#### "never"

> When set to `"never"` Calva will never attempt to automatically start the clojure-lsp server. In this case you are responsible for manually starting the server. More advanced users might want to do this in order to have more control on which roots the clojure-lsp servers are governing. To manually start the clojure-lsp server you can run the `calva.clojureLsp.start` or the `calva.clojureLsp.manage` command and pick the project root. You can also click the `clojure-lsp` statusbar icon to open the Management Menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to `"never"` Calva will never attempt to automatically start the clojure-lsp server. In this case you are responsible for manually starting the server. More advanced users might want to do this in order to have more control over which projects have a clojure-lsp server running for them. To manually start the clojure-lsp server you can run the `calva.clojureLsp.start` or the `calva.clojureLsp.manage` command and pick the project root. You can also click the `clojure-lsp` status bar icon to open the Management Menu.
```

Additionally Calva has commands for:

* Inspecting the clojure-lsp server information
* Read the clojure-lsp server log
* Stopping any running clojure-lsp processes
* Starting clojure-lsp
* Restarting any running clojure-lsp processes
* Downloading the configured clojure-lsp version

> In the status bar Calva will show an indicator with the clojure-lsp status. This status will track the currently open editor - showing the status for the lsp server powering that particular project file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the status bar Calva will show an indicator with the clojure-lsp status. This status will track the currently open editor - showing the status for the clojure-lsp server powering that particular project file.
```

> ### Active clojure-lsp

Reviewer 2: This section gets outdated by this PR. Needs an update.

Author: Updated all the relevant status-bar docs - 1e96bf71

Additionally Calva has commands for:

* Inspecting the clojure-lsp server information
* Read the clojure-lsp server log
* Stopping any running clojure-lsp processes
* Starting clojure-lsp
* Restarting any running clojure-lsp processes
* Downloading the configured clojure-lsp version

Note that the download command will download the configured clojure-lsp version regardless if it is already installed or not. This can be useful when some earlier download has failed resulting in that clojure-lsp can't be started. *NB: It will not download anything if `calva.clojureLspPath` is set to something non-blank.*

### Status bar

In the status bar Calva will show an indicator with the clojure-lsp status. This status will track the currently open project, showing the status (`stopped`, `starting` or `active`) for the relevant clojure-lsp server.

You can click on the status-bar item to open the clojure-lsp management menu which will look as follows:

!["Clojure server management menu"](images/clojure-lsp/management-menu.png "Clojure management menu")

> The menu shows which lsp servers are active and which are stopped. Selecting a project will allow you to start/stop/restart the server for that project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The menu shows which clojure-lsp servers are active and which are stopped. Selecting a project will allow you to start/stop/restart the server for that project.
```

Calva is able to automatically start the clojure-lsp server for you and can be configured to start the server under various different conditions. These behaviours can be configured through the `calva.enableClojureLspOnStart` setting, which takes the following options:

+ "when-workspace-opened->workspace-root"
+ "when-file-opened->furthest-project"
+ "never"

#### "when-workspace-opened->workspace-root" [default]

When set to `"when-workspace-opened->workspace-root"` Calva will start the clojure-lsp in the root of all opened vscode workspaces. All Clojure files in a workspace will be serviced by the clojure-lsp server running in that workspace. This behavior requires that you are opening workspaces with a valid Clojure project in the root (the directory must contain a `deps.edn`, `project.clj` or `shadow-cljs.edn` file).

This is the default auto-start behaviour.

#### "when-file-opened->furthest-project"

> When set to `"when-file-opened->furthest-project"` Calva will attempt to start the clojure-lsp server whenever a Clojure file is opened. The LSP server will be started in the outermost valid Clojure project or will fall back to starting in the workspace root if no valid Clojure project can be found. A directory is considered a Clojure project if it contains typical Clojure project files such as a `deps.edn`, `project.clj`, or `shadow-cljs.edn` file. When working in a mono-repo style project or in a multi-workspace VS Code configuration you may have multiple LSP servers running for each independent Clojure project root.

Reviewer: > When working in a mono-repo style project or in a multi-workspace VS Code configuration you may have multiple LSP servers running for each independent Clojure project root.

Does this mean multiple LSP servers can be running for _the same_ independent project root? Or are you meaning to say that multiple LSP servers can be running, one for each independent Clojure project root? I think it reads like the former, but if it's the latter, can we make it a bit clearer?

Author: > I think it reads like the former, but if it's the latter, can we make it a bit clearer?

Yea it's the latter - I reworded it slightly, it should be more clear now.
